All across North America, transgender lives are being legislated against, featured as the targets of vitriol and vicious political discourse, as everything from laws around hormone replacement therapy, bathroom access, and women’s sports are being anchored by bad faith actors towards trans people (primarily trans women, but the axes of oppression that target specifically trans men and non-binary folks will be explored further in this piece). However, like all systemic forms of marginalization, the core of this momentum is not a result of individual bad actors. Instead, in order to both come to a complete understanding of why this is happening, as well as mount effective political counter action, we need to look at the structural and social factors behind what’s happening. Fundamentally, the regressive political action against trans lives, focused even tighter against trans women, stems from an irreconcilable contradiction between normative, patriarchal gender enforcement, and fluid, trans existence. 

There are a couple key lenses this contradiction is funneled through in order to produce hatred - first, that of the male gaze. Within hegemonic gender scripts, the female form is the sole object of male observation and enjoyment, and this is explicitly not true in reverse; the ideal ‘woman’ is only to be observed, and the ‘man’ is only to be the observer .  For the trans individual, they transgress this dichotomy, snapping its rigidity - without the illusion of objective truth (which cannot exist in the face of trans existence) this binary begins to fall apart. As scholars Burnes and Chen put it, “universal to all gender crossing is a violation to gender boundaries and persecution by the binary paradigm” (Burnes, T. R., & Chen, M. M., 2012). However, this is not the only aspect to the gaze that the trans woman transgresses. Additionally, being women, they are sexualized and objectified, and the heterosexual, conservative man struggles to reckon with his attraction to the trans woman, someone firmly ‘not woman’ in his mind (Lee & Kwan, 2014). In fact, this very notion is one of the leading causes of death for trans women (homicide during the course of sexual activity with a cisgendered, heterosexual man). 

This, however, is not the only intersection with enforced womanhood that trans existence encounters. Another axis of female oppression is the idea of the virgin/whore binary, and how sexual violence plays into it - this concept, in essence, describes the woman asexual and ‘pure’ to be worthy of love and possession, and the woman sexual and ‘whorish’ to be worthy of lust and degradation. Unsurprisingly, throughout history, said degradation has been anything from constant social derision to violent rape. (Tumanov, 2011) This dynamic, as applied to two, cisgender women, has been thoroughly explored in intersectional feminist academia, and it’s typically positioned along axes of virginity, though it is also (and this is of particular importance to this paper) applied along axes of race, class, etc. For the transfemme individual, the label of whore is applied in juxtaposition to the cisgender woman as virgin. By labeling the trans woman as such, she becomes worthy of derision, disgust, lust, and violence in the eyes of male-dominated society. The trans man, too, is affected by these rigid expectations of womanhood. Common to all the norms of womanhood is the removal of agency - existence is defined, not autonomous. Thus, for the trans man, he is denied the power of his agency and seen as a cognitively impaired woman, infantilized as if he is too naive to see the folly of his transness and learn to be a ‘proper woman’ (Straayer, C., 2020). For the non-binary individual, they are simply seen as their sex assigned at birth, their identity meaningless and non-existent. Through the trans individual’s constant transgression of norms, and confrontation of enforced gender lines, they become the subject of the full spectrum of violence patriarchal structures has to offer. Due to all the conflicts listed above, the normative systems of power are reacting as they have to every civil rights movement - demonization.


To dissect the why of the current politicization of trans existence, it’s important for us to set the stage we are playing on. In the United States during 2021, there were over 200 bills brought forward in state legislatures, with at least 17 of them making it into signed law - 2022 hasn’t yet come to a close, and it’s already surpassed that number (Kray et al., 2022), (Ronan, 2021). Canada is not that far down the transphobic path legally, but with such illustrious quotes such as “a minority of radical trans activists are trying to transform society in a way that curtails everyone’s freedoms [...] violent criminals who are biological men but identify as women are being incarcerated in women’s prisons” (Maxime Bernier, 2021) from national politician and  leader of a Canadian political party, it’d be naive to assume we’re more than a few years from a position akin to our neighbours down south. The political action directly targeted against trans individuals can largely fit into three, aforementioned categories - bathroom bills, women’s sports bills, and hormone replacement therapy (HRT) qualification bills. Breaking that down further, bathroom bills are the putting-forward of laws that would restrict gendered bathroom usage to only those assigned that gender at birth. The supposed cause? To cut down on a statistic of trans women assaulting cis women in female washrooms, when in reality, the data shows the trans women are considerably more likely to be victims of assault than perpetrators (Brancho-Sanchez, 2019), (UCLA School of Law, 2021), (Bagagli et al., 2021). In fact, the most common occurrence in places with restrictive bathroom practices (or at least broader social fear of transgender individuals) is cis women physically assaulting anyone they deem to be trans; more often than not, other cis women who happen to be wearing slightly masculine clothing. Next up are women’s sports - once laughed about and seen as pointless by patriarchal norms, it’s sanctity is suddenly of grave importance to every conservative parent across the continent. The line, as it usually goes, is that trans female athletes, being assigned male at birth, are naturally stronger to the point that they are a danger to cis women, and that allowing them to compete with cis women is irresponsible. While it is true that there are minor physical differences between those assigned male at birth (AMAB) and those assigned female at birth (AFAB), they’re largely to do with hormone production (Handelsman, et al. 2018). Since a huge part of many trans individuals medical transition journey includes HRT, it’s important to consider how that has an effect on physical ability - and as it turns out, it’s a very clear and thoroughly researched field, with trans women losing drastic amounts of physical strength due primarily to the decrease of testosterone produced in their bodies (Hamilton et al., 2021), and trans men gaining strength due to the opposite. The fact that, admittedly after HRT, trans women are of consistently and measurably comparable strength doesn’t seem to matter to transphobic politicians, for whom, like the bathroom bills, cruelty is the point. Another key area of commonality of these two layers of legislative marginalization is their broader effects on women’s rights. For women’s sports bills, this has everything to do with enforcement - like with bathroom bills, most of the effects don’t even hit trans woman due to statistical scarcity, they hit butch, cis woman. In this case, though, states have proposed that for sports leagues as young as kindergarten (5  years of age), state officials could conduct genital exams of female athletes if a parent doubts their cisgendered-ness - this bill is Ohio House Bill 151 (LaRe et al., 2022). The sexually violent qualities of this are unspeakably obvious, as youth sports is already an area in which children and youth are sexually abused, and this is, openly, allowing for easily accessible state sanctioned child sex abuse. The final, and perhaps most directly punishing for trans individuals, is restrictions on availability of HRT (technically this also extends to other forms of medical transition, but for trans individuals in both Canada and the United States, many of these can be cost, time, and age prohibitive). HRT and it’s associated medical procedures boil down to two primary aspects: puberty blockers and hormone replacement. Hormone replacement (taking the form of either Estrogen + Testosterone suppression, or Testosterone + Estrogen suppression) has been explained a little bit earlier in this paper, but to offer a brief understanding of puberty blockers, they are what they sound like - drugs that trans children can take starting around 9-11 in order to delay the effects of puberty until they can begin hormone replacement in full. The created controversy around this form of medicalized transition is multi-faceted, so let’s spend the time to break each part of it down for explanation. The first primarily ties in ageism, which in this context, assumes that people have absolutely no agency or ability to make decisions for themselves until they’re 18, at which point they instantaneously know everything there is to know about themselves (of course even this point of autonomy is questioned if said older adult doesn’t like it). Due to this primary assumption, the cascading assumption around youth transgender medical care - puberty blockers - is seen as being a choice made solely by their parent and/or doctor in order to seem progressive. Of course, this is not actually ever the case, as being trans is an incredibly arduous choice and as such, one that parents oft struggle to come to terms with, not push on to their child. The second damaging assumption driving this legislation is the belief that trans folks main goal are to create more trans people, and are nefariously ‘grooming their children’ into becoming trans. Unshockingly, trans individuals are more focused on surviving and existing. Between these three core areas of legislation, a couple important things emerge. First of all, that the myriad laws around trans existence are in no way meant to better the lives of trans people, as some purport they do, or even society. Instead, they are a blatant attempt by systems of dominant power to punish trans existence. Secondly, it emerges very rapidly that these issues do not only affect trans individuals. These issues concern women, youth, and others on a level far beyond what even some of its own proponents may believe them to. 

To recap what we’ve covered in order to draw new conclusions, we learned about how trans individuals transgress by nature of existing, and that dominant political actions against trans individuals are responses to a perceived threat to a violently maintained gendered social order. Trans women, in particular, transcend normative notions of the gaze, and in doing so, forces conversation around more nuanced understandings of sexuality and gender expression, one that many are unwilling to have. So unwilling, in fact, they’re willing to punish trans women for bringing the conversation into their heads by existing as wholly themselves. We also explored the depth and specifics of the anti-trans legislation that has been the focused edge of transphobic reckoning. The complexities and background behind laws stretching from bathroom bills to HRT restrictions were elucidated, allowing us to draw two major inferences from the patterns that emerged. First, cruelty is the end goal, the intention. These actions are not based in science, data, or compassion - only hatred of trans identity, and the fear that results from hatred. Second, trans laws don’t solely affect trans individuals, rather they have wide spanning effects that punish any amount of gender expression deviating from strict, patriarchal norms. Whilst they are ostensibly about transgender women in most cases, they also serve as efficient state control to wield against cisgender women. As this piece delving into a wide-lens view of trans oppression under gendered systems comes to a close, I want to crystallize a single lesson to be taken from all the information provided: trans existence and trans visibility is a threat to dominant, oppressive systems of power. By continuing to uplift and centre trans experiences, we can make real change towards a societal system that doesn’t so rigidly and violently enforce our gender expression. Take one step away from the fear mongering from those in positions of power, and hear the voice of the youngest generation - one that’s very boldly declared itself ready to reckon with that conversation.








Fundamentally, in all three realms, the core of the conflict is about energy and production - the cloud cities need the physical parts to repair their engines, the night cities need fuel to power them, and the citizens of the overgrowth both have to survive the dense foliage itself, and protect the land from the energy gathering of the night cities, and the mining of cloud cities.

Above is not immediately relevant to the story

Lune’s power set will be internally well-defined 








Chapter 1

The constant, gentle pattering of rainfall danced across the glistening vegetation, as reflections in the slowly growing pools of water undulated with every drop. As the growth swayed under the pressure above, the moon crawling higher in the sky, the hair began to rise on Lune’s neck, their senses alerting them. As Lune’s golden-green eyes glanced wildly, their muscles flexed slightly with the tension they held within, as a small whistling sound caught their attention. Staring deeper into the bush, a small glimmer of light whisked past Lune, lightly singing their cheek. Whispering a curse under their breath, they dropped to the forest floor, allowing the growth around them to conceal their lithe form - looking up, the vines slowly creeping along their body, Lune observed the land they’ve called home all their life as they allowed their breathing to slow.

Once a vast expanse of grey, the cities of old had long fallen to the test of time - and, much more directly, to the growth which claimed it. Vast towers, once standing dozens of stories, now lay broken, bent to the will of the forest. Vines, framing the ancient structures, flowers, where the glimmering lights once were, and dark, bark-covered roots connecting the previously electrified expanse. A city of man, abandoned to the nature it once dominated - this, Lune knows, is the power of the Growth. 

Lune grew amongst the Growth - unlike in the age of concrete, the Growth was understood, spoken to by the humans who shared it’s land, and Lune was one such person. If understood, if given it’s due respect, the Growth accepted. It protected.

Spreading their arms in a satisfied yawn, Lune sat up, lightly covered in the mud and rain of the night before. The sun, at times blistering, was sufficiently filtered by the thick canopy above as to gently frame Lune’s naturally glowing form. Lune yawned gently, the danger of the night vanished in the serenity of the morning as they stretched their arms out. Today, being a new day, was an opportunity to keep looking for the Source. The Source, Lune knows, is a sacred destination to their people - after all, it was where the Growth began. The well from which all has sprung forth. The descriptions of this mystical place, however, are described most positively as… vague. Truly, no one actually knew; might it have originated deep within the original forests of Earth? A reclamation of land taken? Or did it have a creator, it’s origin deep within the binds of dull grey it would eventually destroy?

Lune, however, had a hunch.

As they’d argue to anybody who’d listen, the Growth *must’ve* come from underground. While it’s territory is expansive to the point of being eternally unmapped, no historical record of that time documented any particular starting place. Plus, the great steel cities were broadly unaffected! If they stood in defiance to the power of the Growth, surely they’d have some knowledge of it’s true beginning. With all that being said, Lune thought perhaps, if it arose in many places at once, that would explain the historical inaccuracies. And how would it do that? From underground.

They also knew that accessing some ancient, forgotten land from which the entire planet was completely shaped was, at the very least, near-impossible. But the Growth did not unilaterally shape everything, rather, deep within the jungles of the Americas, lied a vast grove known for its unusually massive trees, reaching far up into the sky - in fact, the only reason these trees were discovered is due to the altitude of the Cloud Cities not being able to clear them.

As Lune finished their stretch and stood, they saw a massive, twisting tree: it’s trunk, an ancient, deep mahogany, knotted in ever larger spirals as their eyes glanced upwards, it’s leaves cascading high above the forest canopy in a dark, verdant green. And at its base, there was a small, intricate door seemingly carved into the grain of the wood, a soft glow emanating from it’s edges. Beyond this mysterious, imposing tree lay a grove of similarly monolithic trunks - these other trees, though, did not share the same golden glow of the first. Rather, a thick, almost tangible darkness seeped out of them, sucking the sunlight into themselves, Even standing dozens of metres away from these ominous pathways, Lune could feel a sort of foreboding toxicity coldly grasp their skin, contrasting the gentle warmth of the cascading sunlight above. Naturally, the obvious path forward seemed to be to enter the golden door - whatever lies inside being presumably more benevolent than the others -  and so, Lune decided, they would open the door.

Now, Lune did expect a lot from the initial opening of the doorway, perhaps immediately solving all their suspicions about the origin of the Growth, some magical, all-powerful seed, and instead, they got a… staircase. Just past the entrance of the door, bulbous glowing mushrooms lines the inside of the trunk as a spiral staircase, seemingly carved out of the wood itself, descended down into the abyss. Underground, in fact. As warm and safe as the environment around them felt, Lune’s muscles tensed as their senses alerted them to perceived danger. Unsure of whether it was some measure of anxiety, an imminent threat, or a general trepidation of the unknown, they threw caution to the wind, bounding down the steps of the natural, dark red stairs. As they bounced from step to step, they drew their finger along the lining of the walls, sprouting bright, colour flora with each brush of their finger, bringing a deal of green to the otherwise red and yellow hall. 

As they descended, the bright, buoyant lighting of the lamp fungi appeared dimmer, faded, and their frequency lessened. Nevertheless, Lune continued, though more trepidatiously. Far more intriguing to Lune was the emergence of intricate etchings lining the walls of this arcane stairwell; near the top, where Lune entered, the wood seemed cleanly carved, as if out of a fairytale, but the deeper down one went, the more bizarre it seemed to get. Not only did it appear worn, lived in, but frankly, wild. The walls were becoming uneven, each step a fractured branch instead of finely crafted wooden planks. And the drawings this deep, they were concerning, to say the least. As Lune traced their fingers across the designs, it seemed to artfully depict a civilization under siege - by what, exactly, was unclear - as it had calamity laid upon them.

Was this the beginning of the Growth? they thought to themselves, in quieted horror. As Lune pored over the mysterious carvings, they felt their finger lightly sticky with what they initially believed to be sap as they softly stepped down further, the narrative of the pictures descending with them. By now, as depicted, the last few survivors of what appeared to have been a successful invasion held each other in shushed, wary silence, as they cried beneath the canopy of a great tree. As Lune’s finger got more copiously soaked, they stopped momentarily to investigate their natural assumption, and as it turns out, it certainly wasn’t sap. Instead, as Lune discovered, their fingers were becoming seeped in thick, crimson blood, gently cascading from the lines of the murals. By now, Lune’s senses were more than alert - whatever was down here definitely wasn’t as hoped. Taking a moment to weigh the pros and cons (ergo, curiosity vs likely death), Lune decides on continuing on. What’s the worst that could happen? I could die deep underground, alone, knowing only marginally more than I did before… well that’s still more than before! Will have been a life well served if it comes to that.

As Lune nervously inspected the details of the narrative piece before them, they felt a slight thrum from the gnarled oak staff strapped to their muscular back, gently shocking them from their studious fervour. “Oh that’s not a good sign, is it”, they quietly noted before pressing on anyway. After some time passes, and the pictured story continues its dark tragedy, Lune finally arrived at the base of the stairwell, finding a stout wooden door that appeared remarkably unlike the structure of the surrounding room. This far down, the walls and stairs transform into wild undergrowth, broken branches, torn wood, and scarred bark. The door however, appeared ornate and delicate, with a heavy iron handle offering access to the mysteries that lie beyond it. As doubts crept into the forefront of Lune’s mind, they grabbed the handle, and twisted it down, pushing open the door.



Selene knew that logically, her coffee definitely should’ve arrived already. Like fine, it was three in the morning. And also she ordered it two minutes ago. But she’s got things to do - any soul up at three in Noci would. Selene’s business, however, is unlike most other people up and about at this time of darkened morning. While they’re busy getting modded, jacking into the net, working out deals, and using every new novelty poison some asshole developed, Selene documents the world around her. In the absence of centralized news, lots of citizen journalists just write what they see from day to day; or in her case, nights. And on this particular night, Selene was following a tip from one of her more devoted fans, in hopes of seeing some runners go Jolt Racing. And, to Selene, the only chance she had of managing to drag herself from her desk to the street side view was to fuel herself with coffee. As she anxiously watched the clock, the sounds of the city began to echo and thrum deeper and louder as it raucously readied itself for the event of the night.

‘Three minutes. Ugh. What did I even pay for?’ Selene was getting antsy at this point, small jitters running through her fingers as they drummed the laminated wood of her desk. As her mood spiralled continuously further, on the top of the fourth minute, the loud, intrusive sound of her 10-years-outdated doorbell rang. Focused solely now on her heroic mission - that is, consuming caffeine at three in the morning to go to an event she barely enjoys - Selene opens the door to a dazed delivery person, taking but a second to absorb their presence before yanking the coffee from their hand for herself. Peace. Selene was so engrossed in the impossible beauty of this bitter brown liquid, having crouched like an ancient gargoyle on her desk chair as she devoured it all, that she failed entirely to notice the patiently-waiting delivery driver standing awkwardly in the doorway.

“Ahem… sorry ma’am” they said, finally making their presence known. 

“Oh god I’m so sorry, this must be awfully rude, I shouldn’t have done that… sorry what was it that you needed?” Selene blubbered, anxiety overwhelming her desire to keep downing her coffee.

“Oh! Uh, no worries - I just need your biometric identification for payment?”

“Ah!! Hah… uh. So so sorry.”

“No worries ma’am” they respond coolly, before scanning her eyes “Have a nice evening!” 

“Thanks!” Selene blurted out, before abruptly shutting the door in the person’s face, stressfully sinking to the floor with her back pressed to the entryway. Face-to-face interactions weren’t exactly Selene’s… thing. Hand her a keyboard or a camera? Hell yeah. Give her a mildly awkward encounter with someone she stared at an instant too long at standing under the neon sign of a convenience store ages ago? An absolute nightmare. Having sufficiently fixated on the awful interaction immediately beforehand, Selene dragged herself from the ground to her desk, where she could finish her coffee. Her delicious, delicious coffee.

Thankfully for Selene, the coffee had the desired effect. It wasn’t so much that she was going to fall asleep without it - she most certainly wasn’t - so much as it was to mentally prepare herself to go out to the race. Jolt racing wasn’t exactly for the faint of heart; runners, who’ve mastered their electromanipulation, still frequently crash and burn against power lines as they dance through the air over Noci’s streets. No one really knows where electromanipulation comes from, but at some point the peoples of the desert cities developed the ability to affect the movement of electrical signals around them. For some (read: Selene), this meant being able to turn a light on/off by hovering your hand over the switch, instead of flicking it. But for runners, it was an art form; from being able to glide across power lines, materialize discs of energy in thin air, and send shocks hurtling through the sky, runners were able to make it truly magical. Put these people in a competitive race, and well, sparks fly. And if you were enhanced? Forget about limitations, some of the tech people put in their bodies allowed them to melt steel beams with crackling lightning bolts and surf on waves of electric fields they materialized on their lonesome. Selene, however, was poor, and fearful of her body rejecting mods, so she was happily stuck with her bag of flesh. 

Watching it up close wasn’t exactly the safest activity, either. Given the generally underground nature of these competitions, it usually meant a lack of standardization or really any precautions taken to prevent the wanton death of spectators - anything from rubble crashing on top of them, frequent electrocutions, being trampled by other members of the crowd as they watched. All that being considered Selene still wanted to get a story, because at the end of the day, there’s nothing more sensationalist than a firsthand perspective of a Jolt Race. And so, she stumbled over to her closet, opening it with a creak as the metal hinge bent, deciding on what outfit her nighttime escapade would necessitate, settling on a long, grey wool trench coat with a full-length pale pink skirt underneath. With that, Selene takes one last heavy swig of her drink, before turning to face the dreaded exit of her home. The fuck have I gotten myself into?

——————————————————

As their eyes adjusted to the darkness, the first thing Lune noticed was the small, strobing red lights in the corner of the room. Stepping into the room with held breath, nothing immediately stuck out to Lune as an immediate threat - each step let loose a soft cloud of dust, so evidently nobody else was here with them. Once the visibility was substantially better, they took in more of their surroundings; laid bare, the room was fairly unassuming. To the right, a tall, archaic computer lay dormant and unusable - this being the source of the ominous red light - while rotting cabinets sat to the other side, and a large, mahogany table sat firmly in the centre of the room. Papers were scattered messily about the place, as well as some additional equipment pertaining to the usage of the room’s electronics.

Now, Lune had spent their entire life amongst their people, but they weren’t oblivious, either - this didn’t look obviously like the doing of the cloud cities, or of the night cities. Instead, they thought to themselves, this reflected the old world, that of before the Growth. These rigid, faded panels and heavy set wood furniture was intrinsically tied to an image of wild vines splitting the walls to the sky, rot, mold, and mushrooms having long since disintegrated the integrity of what was within. 

As thoughts and speculations whirled inside their head, their attention slowly gravitated towards the machine in the corner; the academic study of this room could wait. First, they needed answers on what they came here for. Cautiously approaching the hardwood desk upon which the mysterious, ancient computer sat, they took in more of its features as their golden eyes finished adjusting. Boxy and black, this opaque, monolithic creation stood imposingly, a mix of coloured wires running along both its surface and connecting it to the nearby wall. Some symbols, faded beyond recognition, adorned a plaque near the bottom of the machine. By some grace of the root this enigma still seemed to function, a soft whir beginning to accompany the blinking red as it sensed Lune’s very presence. 

As Lune’s hand reached out to meet its hard surface, a startingly loud sound accompanied by a burst of pixelated light filling the room, emanating from a plastic screen sat beside it. Before Lune had time to fully register or process this new development, a voice spoke out, seemingly from the computer: 

“How can I help you today?”

“Wh-who are you? What are you?” Lune replied, still reeling from the suddenness of it all.

“I’m sorry, I don’t understand. How can I help you today?”

“How long have you been down here?”

“This unit was created in 2014”

“2014? What does that mean?”

“2014 (MMXIV) was a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian calendar, the 2014th year of the Common Era (CE) and Anno Domini (AD) designations, the 14th year of the 3rd millennium and the 21st century, and the 5th year of the 2010s decade.”

“Excuse me? What are you talking about?”

“I’m sorry, I don’t understand. How can I help you today?”

Realizing the futility of communication with this entity, Lune slumped against the wall as they allowed their thoughts to run wild. Did I actually just find evidence of what came before? Is this thing sentient? Does it know what happened? Did it cause what happened? Ultimately though, their introspection only brought about more questions than answers. They simply had to keep digging. 

That said, as soon as that resolute and productive thought entered their brain, so too did a recognition of the fact that the room just started rumbling, and a small spray of dust and debris cascaded gently onto their shoulder. 

The room was coming down. 


Chapter 2

Much to Selene’s deep, deep chagrin, jolt racing was very popular in Noci. Not just in the sense that it had dedicated fans - that would be manageable - but more in the sense of roaring crowds for dozens of blocks, barely stopping themselves from spilling onto the race itself. Technically jolt racing was an illegal sport, and officially frowned upon by the government, but no amount of tyrannical oversight could prevent crowds in the tens, hundreds of thousands from amassing every few weeks… and now Selene was swamped in the middle of the throng. Standing in her dull grey trench and tall, beige heels at least allowed her to stay above the heat of it, almost a head taller than the majority of the people surrounding her











